This month, I'd like to discuss how our understanding of this
generation that Jesus spoke about at Matthew 2434 has a
bearing on the nearness of the time of the end of this
system of things. Now, you'll remember what Jesus said, as
recorded at Matthew 2434, he said, this generation will by
no means pass away until all these things happen. Now, you'll
notice that there are two elements in this verse. We talk
about this generation, so we need to know what that's about,
and also what are all these things that are going to happen.
Well, let's take the second point first. What are all these
things that Jesus was referring to? Well, if you look in the
context of Matthew 24, you see that Jesus talks about
nation rising against nation, kingdom against kingdom,
food shortages, earthquakes, and one place after another.
Fine. So the generation that Jesus is talking about will not
pass away until it sees war, famine, earthquakes, but is
there more? There's more. In the same chapter, Jesus talks
about a great tribulation. So the generation will not pass
away until the great tribulation occurs. Now, that is
interesting. That is relevant to us. But, of course, we have to
know what is a generation, and which particular generation was
Jesus talking about? Now, if you were asked by someone to
identify a scripture that tells us what a generation is, what
scripture would you turn to? I'll give you a moment. Think
about that. My choice is Exodus chapter 1 and verse 6. Let's
read that. Exodus chapter 1 and verse 6. It says, Joseph
eventually died, and also all his brothers, and all that
generation. Now, what do we know about Joseph's family? We
know that Joseph had eleven brothers. Ten of them were older
than Joseph. One of them, Benjamin, was younger. And we know
that at least two of Joseph's brothers actually lived longer
than Joseph, because the Bible says that on his deathbed he
called his brothers plural to him. But now, what did Joseph and
his brothers all have in common? They were all contemporaries.
They had all lived at the same time. They were part of the same
generation. Now, suppose there was a man who died ten
minutes before Joseph was born. Would he be part of Joseph's
generation? No. Because he'd never lived at the same time as
Joseph. He was not a contemporary of Joseph's.
Now, suppose there was a little baby who was born ten minutes
after Joseph died. Would the baby be part of Joseph's
generation? Again, no. Because the baby would not have lived
at the same time as Joseph. For the man and the baby to be
part of Joseph's generation, they would have had to have lived
at least some time during Joseph's lifespan. So now we've
discovered what it means to have a generation, what makes
up a generation. It's a group of contemporaries. It's a group
of people who have lived at the same time. But now Jesus said,
this generation will not pass, will by no means pass away until
all these things happen. So what particular generation was
Jesus referring to? For that we have to go to the context of
Jesus' words. So let's turn to Matthew chapter 24 and we're
going to read verses 32 to 34. This is very important and
it's very enlightening. Matthew chapter 24 verses 32 to 34.
Jesus says, now learn this illustration from the fig tree.
Just as soon as its young branch grows tender and sprouts
its leaves, you know that summer is near. Likewise, also
you, when you see all these things, know that he is near
at the doors. Truly, I say to you that this generation will
by no means pass away until all these things happen.
Now let's go back to verse 32. Notice that Jesus is saying
that his disciples should learn something from the fig tree.
Now any little boy, any small child can see a leaf on a tree
and point to it and say, look, leaf, but what does it mean?
The child may not know that summer is near, but an older
person who sees the leaves on the trees is going to say,
ah, I know that something that can't be seen yet is going to happen.
Summer is going to come. Now you can't see it yet, but the older
person knows that summer is near. And then in verse 33, Jesus
starts out by saying likewise. So he's making a connection,
isn't it, between verse 33 and verse 32. He says likewise
also you, when you see all these things, know that he is near
at the doors. Now what does Jesus mean by all these things?
Well, the things he talked about earlier in the chapter.
Nation rising against nation, kingdom against kingdom, food
shortages, earthquakes, pestilences and so on. He says when you see
all these things, I want you to draw a conclusion, a conclusion
about something spiritual. Now when did all these things begin
to appear in 1914? Now in 1914 any young boy could see the
various aspects of the sign, wars, famines, earthquakes and so on,
and conclude that they were bad. But what did it all mean?
Only those with spiritual discernment would draw the conclusion,
as Jesus said, that he is near at the doors. Now here's the
point. In 1914, who were the only ones who saw these various
aspects of the sign and drew the right conclusion that something
invisible was occurring, only the anointed. So this generation
is made up of anointed ones who see the sign and have the
spiritual discernment to draw the proper conclusion about the sign.
Now one of those who saw the sign and understood what it meant was
Brother Frederick Franz. Brother Franz was born in 1893 and he was
baptized in November of 1913. So as one of the lords anointed in
1914, he saw the sign and he was able to understand its meaning.
There were other anointed ones who also saw the sign and understood
its meaning. Joseph Rutherford, A. H. McMillan, W. E. Van Ambre,
after 1914 others were anointed with Holy Spirit. These
include such well-known brothers as Nathan Norr, Lyman Swingle,
Grant Souter, Milton Henshel, and George Ganges. They were anointed
contemporaries of some in the first group. So really these
brothers make up part of the second group of the generation. That
is significant and we'll come back to it in a moment.
Would you like an easy way to keep the generation straight? An easy
way is to consider the situation of Brother Fred W. Franz. Now you'll
see that he is F. W. F. on the chart. Now as we said before,
Brother Franz was born in 1893. He was baptized in November of 1913.
So as one of the Lords anointed in 1914 he saw the sign and he
understood what the sign meant. Now Brother Franz lived a long
life. He finished his earthly course at 99 years of age in 1992.
Now do you know of many who were of the anointed in 1914 and who
outlived Brother Franz? There may have been some, but not many.
Now just for the sake of argument, suppose that we assume that
Brother Franz was the last of that first group of anointed ones.
That is the group of anointed ones who were anointed in 1914,
who saw the sign and then continued serving faithfully. Now we're
not saying Brother Franz was. We just don't know. But for the sake of
argument, let's suppose in order to be part of this generation,
someone would have had to have been anointed before 1992,
because he would have to have been a contemporary of some of the
first group. Now again, we're not saying that Brother Franz was
the last of this group, but we're just using this for the sake of
argument as a point of reference. Anyone anointed after 1992 would be
of the anointed, but he would not be part of this generation.
And Jesus said, this generation will not pass away until all
these things happen. Are you beginning to see how this all
connects with the urgency of our times? Someone might say,
we know that some of the anointed will be on the earth when the
great tribulation breaks out, but who's to say that Jehovah won't
be anointing more people years from now? And then they'll be
reading about us in some updated version of the Proclamers book.
Well, the answer is simple. Anyone anointed years from now would
not have been a contemporary of those of the first group of anointed
ones because they have passed off the scene. And Jesus said,
this generation will not pass away until all these things happen.
They would not have been part of the generation. Now those of
the second group of anointed ones are getting older. This is
especially clear when you consider who make up the second group.
We saw some pictures of those who made up the second group,
but in addition, there are Carl Klein, John Barr, Albert Schroeder.
All of the current members of the governing body are also part
of this generation, and some of us are showing our age.
So brothers, we are indeed living deep in the time of the
end. Now is no time for any of us to get weary.
So let's all heed Jesus' counsel. The counsel found it
Matthew 24-42. Keep on the watch, therefore, because you
do not know on what day your Lord is coming.